[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> There is a pattern behind
everything in your life.
It's pain or pleasure, happiness
or misery, success or failure.
The hidden key to
self-empowerment
is the knowledge
of these patterns
which direct our lives.
Sacred geometry teaches
the master patterns
which create our world and
which are the true secret
behind all manifestation.
This series removes the veils
of previously hidden knowledge.
You will learn key
subtle energy patterns
which, when activated regularly
in your own energy field,
can change your life.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Welcome, I'm your host,
Dr. Robert J. Gilbert,
founder of the Vesica
Institute for Holistic Studies.
For over 40 years, I have
intensively researched
the patterns behind human life.
This includes scientific studies
from my time as a US Marine
Corps instructor in the field
of nuclear, biological, chemical
warfare defense and studies
of spiritual traditions
around the world while
completing my PhD
in international studies.
I'm excited to share
with you in this series
some of the highlights of
these 40 years of research.
We will explore together
the hidden patterns
which manifest everything
in physical existence.
This is a journey
of empowerment.
By learning how to work with
subtle energy patterns known
to ancient traditions,
you can initiate
an alchemical transformation
within yourself.
This process can empower
your individual evolution
of consciousness and
thereby assist the raising
of consciousness on our planet.
We begin with a hidden
lineage of initiates
known in ancient Egypt as
the masters of the net.
These initiates
knew a great secret,
that behind everything
in physical existence
is an invertible
matrix of energy,
which is the source of all
physical manifestation.
It is this invisible
energy matrix
which materializes everything
in the physical world
through the patterns we
call sacred geometry.
The term sacred geometry
is comprised of geo-,
meaning Earth, and metry,
meaning measurement.
Sacred geometry literally
means the sacred measure
of the Earth.
We can also think of
this in a larger sense,
of sacred geometry meaning
the divine blueprints
of consciousness and energy.
In the ancient world, all
of the temples, monuments,
and political power centers
were built on the larger power
spots of the Earth's
energy grid and were
used for establishing the exact
placement of the central axis
of the building, the
walls, the altars, and all
the other features
in sacred buildings.
The ancients knew that
many of these large scale
Earth grids are connected to
the sacred geometry patterns
we know today as
the Platonic solids.
They're called Platonic
solids because they
appeared in the writings
of Plato 2,500 years ago.
However, these forms were known
in ancient temple sciences
long before the time of Plato.
The Platonic solids
are the geometric forms
which correspond to the four
elements of earth, water, air,
and fire.
Then there is the form
of the fifth element,
the universal life force which
the Greeks called ether and was
known as chi, qi,
prana, and other names
in different traditions.
This is the fifth and
final Platonic solid.
This fifth element form is
the 12-sided dodecahedron
which was considered
sacred and sometimes
secret in the Greek tradition.
Plato hints at it when
he described the Earth
as looking from above
like a 12-sided ball.
In ancient traditions, both the
Earth and the entire universe
were considered to have
the form of a dodecahedron.
It's easy to see why over the
entrance to Plato's initiation
school, there was said to
be a sign which read no one
ignorant of geometry may enter.
In the 1970s, Ivan
Sanderson wrote an article
showing the geometric
locations of physical anomalies
on the Earth.
The most famous
of these locations
is the devil's triangle
around Bermuda.
However, Sanderson
found that there
was a geometric pattern
of similar sites
all around the globe.
Sanderson found
these locations were
at the nodal points
of the Platonic
solid known as the icosahedron.
As we will see in a later
episode of this series,
the icosahedron is not only
the sacred geometry shape
for this part of the
energy grid of the Earth.
It is also known
in science today
as a key biological form
which appears, for example,
in the geometric
form of viruses,
the most basic form of life.
Researchers discovered that
to make these Earth grid maps
align properly to these
sacred geometry patterns,
point number one
of the grid needed
to be aligned to one of the
world's great large scale
power spots, Giza
plateau in Egypt.
And so it is here, in the
civilization of ancient Egypt,
built on this primary power
spot of the Earth grid,
that we will find evidence of
an ancient initiation system
based on the invisible energy
grids, which in ancient texts
are often referred to
as nets, or the net.
In India, for example,
the jeweled net of Indra
is described as a net
extending infinitely
in all direction
with jewels which
glitter like stars at every
nodal point of the net.
Every jewel reflects all
the other jewels in itself.
Other interpretations include
that every bright jewel
at the nodal points of
the net is an atman, which
is the spirit core
within human beings
and all spiritual beings.
Each atman spirit core has
the same divine essence
as all others, but with
their own unique qualities
based on the karma they have
generated through acting
in the physical world.
In the highest levels
of modern physics,
it is understood
that physical matter
is based on both physical
particles in different states
of vibration and on waves.
Waves can collapse
into particles.
Particles can disintegrate
back into waves.
This is called wave particle
duality in modern physics.
Similarly, ancient traditions
based both their understanding
of natural forces and
their healing methods
on dynamic vital energy, not
on the physical matter itself,
which is simply a lower, denser
manifestation of the underlying
energy patterns.
Ancient traditions understood
that energy in different states
is the core of all existence.
This brings us to an important
secret of sacred geometry.
Whenever you see a
physical form, including
the forms of sacred geometry
we will explore in this series,
don't think of it as a
solid, inert structure.
Always keep in mind
that what stands
behind this physical
structure is the net,
the vibrational matrix of energy
that this form crystallized out
of.
Remember that the physical
form can change immediately
when the background
energy matrix changes.
Everything is energy so
sacred geometry patterns
are crystallized
forms showing us
the invisible,
vibrational matrix, which
is the higher reality.
This vibrational matrix is the
net, which ancient traditions
learn to master.
Understanding that the
solidity of physical matter
is an illusion, that it can
change based on changing
the vibrational
matrix behind matter,
is the secret of all
advanced energy healing
and what we call today
vibrational medicine.
It is also the secret of all
advanced spiritual activation
of the human being.
These nets, or energy grids,
work on higher plane levels,
in addition to their work
on the physical plane,
to create physical form.
Modern physics has
allowed materialism
to restrict its understanding
of this larger reality
so that modern materialism
only sees energy manifesting
at two levels, the
electromagnetic
and the physical levels.
One of the most popular
models of these higher planes
today is the seven planes model
from the Theosophical Society.
This image of the
seven planes of nature
is derived from
the modern system
of biogeometry developed by Dr.
Ibrahim Karim in Cairo, Egypt.
Dr. Karim found the
geometric shapes
which connect in resonance
to each plane, which
makes possible very advanced
work in testing or directing
energy to these planes.
We will discuss
biogeometry in more detail
in the final episode
of the season.
Working with higher
planes, along with the net
of the vibrational
matrix, is a key secret
of spiritual initiation.
This makes possible
advanced applications
in manifestation, prosperity
work, and the materialization
of energy and thought forms
into physical reality.
It is all about
knowing how to work
with the patterns of energy,
which move from the higher
planes of consciousness
into vibrational matrices
and then crystallize into
physical manifestation.
Modern materialistic
science doesn't
allow itself to
consider any planes
above the physical plane.
It bans any discussion
of metaphysics
just as dogmatically as
any fundamentalist religion
enforces the suppression
of heretical ideas.
Instead, modern science talks
about dimensions rather than
higher planes.
Modern advanced physics is
full of higher dimensions.
In fact, modern physics requires
the existence of many higher
dimensions in order for the
mathematics of quantum physics
to work out.
But despite these
higher dimensions
in physics equations,
materialistic science
continues to insist that this is
simply a mathematical artifact
and does not indicate the
existence of any higher
metaphysical realities.
So let's take just a moment to
understand the basics of what
dimensions are, as these have
taken the place in physics
today of the classical ideas of
the higher planes of existence.
Physics today teaches that our
physical reality is literally
a three-dimensional
geometric grid comprised
of three axes, each at a
90-degree angle to the others.
We start with zero
dimensions, which
is a point, an energy center.
In physics, it is connected
to the idea of the singularity
as the source of all creation.
In spiritual terms, the
zero dimensional point
is the gateway to the divine
unity from which all polarity
and manifestation emerges,
which ancient traditions would
call the divine plane.
The zero dimensional
point is literally
the spiritual origin
point from which
physical space is created.
To create the first
dimension, the point
moves parallel to
itself to create a line.
The point then
moves on a new axis,
creating lines between
the new point and the two
previous points,
making the simplest
two-dimensional straight
line form: the triangle.
The point then moves on
a new 90-degree axis,
which creates not only new lines
between the now four points,
but also creates planes
on all sides of this now
three-dimensional form.
This makes the
simplest straight line,
three-dimensional geometrical
form, the tetrahedron.
We have now moved from
the point, to the line,
to the plane, to the
solid, from zero dimensions
to three dimensions.
If we move the point
into another new axis,
away from the existing
three dimensions of space,
we then create a fourth
dimensional object.
We cannot see any aspect of
fourth dimensional or higher
forms because our human
senses are based on perceiving
our three-dimensional world.
However, it may be
that our subtle organs
of spiritual perception
could perceive these higher
dimensions, or higher planes.
This realization, that beings
with sense organs for only
lower dimensions could
only see fragments
of higher dimensional
objects, was
the basis for the concept
of Flatland by Edwin Abbott.
The Flatland concept shows
how a two-dimensional being
could only see simple
two-dimensional or
one-dimensional aspects of
three-dimensional objects
moving through the plane of
the world that he perceives.
The lesson, of course, is
at the same is true for us
as three-dimensional beings.
We can only see 3D,
or lower dimensional,
sections of any
fourth dimensional
or higher dimensional objects
moving through our world.
This Flatland concept of our
only perceiving small fragments
of higher dimensional objects
moving through our world
opens up new understandings
of mysterious spiritual
manifestations, of UFO
sightings, et cetera.
Fifth, sixth, and even
higher dimensional forms
are also possible
and have already
been identified in advanced
scientific mathematics
and geometric studies.
When we see these higher
dimensional geometric
forms on a flat,
two-dimensional surface,
they appear as a complex grid
pattern, the net described
in the ancient traditions.
So if we add another
point to the preceding
series of dimensional
images, a new point
which would now be in the
fourth dimension, along an axis
shift not perceivable by a
three-dimensional person,
this would create a
fourth dimensional form,
of which we would only see a
shadow of it in our dimension.
Note that the fourth
dimensional form
at the end of the sequence, when
shown in a lower dimensional
projection as a flat, 2D form,
from a specific perspective,
looks like a five-pointed
star, a pentagram
inside a five-sided
enclosure, a pentagon.
This opens up the possibility
that forms and sacred geometry
used in ancient
spiritual traditions
are actually lower
dimensional projection views
of higher dimensional objects.
These 2D or 3D sacred
geometry patterns
may actually have
the hidden power
to energetically connect us to
higher dimensional realities.
As we will see in
a later episode,
the pentagram form
we see here, created
by higher dimensional
projection,
is a key sacred geometry pattern
for the human energy body
and has been used for
spiritual and magical purposes
throughout recorded
human history.
This pentagram within
a pentagon is also
related to the large
dodecahedron of the Earth grid
we saw earlier in this episode.
The dodecahedron is
comprised of 12 pentagons,
showing that the energy
geometries of the human body
also exist in a larger
macro form in the energy
grids of the Earth itself.
This is a profound aspect
of sacred geometry,
that geometric forms
we see may just
be shadows of higher
dimensional forms which
most human beings have
not yet developed a sense
organ to perceive directly.
Now that we have explored
some basics of energy grids,
or what the ancients called
the net, as patterns which
create the physical
world and which
manifest on multiple
planes and dimensions,
we can now explore the hidden
tradition of the masters
of the net in ancient Egypt.
The ancient Egyptian
tradition cultivated
deep, hidden knowledge
and applications
of the energetic net behind
all physical manifestation,
both in the human energy
field and in the Earth itself.
In modern physics,
it is understood
that all physical matter
is within an energy
grid of space and time.
Today, we see in physics
books a representation
of the net of spacetime being
distorted by physical mass.
This net is often shown
looking like a rubber sheet
with a squared
geometric grid on it,
being distorted and stretched
by an object such as a planet.
This means that the
net is malleable,
and it can be modified.
Over 5,000 years
before modern physics,
this same energy
grid which is today
called the net of spacetime,
was known and shown
in the ancient
Egyptian mysteries
as the net which
creates and sustains
all physical existence.
Learning to tap the power of
this geometric energy grid
was a key aspect of the
Egyptian temple initiation.
Those initiated
into these mysteries
were known as the
masters of the net.
Behind the illustrations
on the Egyptian temple
walls were geometric grids
constructed first by the artist
before creating the
final illustrations we
see on the completed
temple walls in Egypt.
These geometric grids
used in ancient Egypt
are known to modern
Egyptologists.
But with their
materialistic viewpoint,
many believe these
grids to have only
been a practical
method to lay out
the illustrations on the wall.
They ignore the vast
literature in ancient Egypt,
which describes this net
and its magical power.
There are specific terms
used for different aspects
of the geometric net of energy
by the Egyptian initiates
of the temple.
Some of those
terms are seen here
from hieroglyphic text
published by British researchers
in the late 1800s.
There were also direct
representations of the net.
For the public,
the net was often
represented metaphorically
as a net used to catch fish,
or to catch birds.
Initiates were shown learning to
master the net and its powers.
Deeper initiation
teachings were also
held within the net imagery.
Ancient Egyptians did not
refer to non-physical beings
as gods or goddesses, as they
are translated into English
today from ancient text.
But rather, they
referred to these beings
as netters, the conscious
forces of nature
which the initiate learns
to directly communicate with
and to direct their power.
Many netters were shown
with animal heads,
not because ancient
Egyptians worshipped
animals, as is sometimes
falsely speculated today,
but because they understood that
higher divine powers manifested
through specific animals,
just as today we say clever
as a fox.
The ibis-headed netter was
known to the ancient Egyptians
as Djehuti, but today,
we know this netter
from the later corrupted
Greek name, Thote or Thoth.
Djehuti was understood to be
the being who created and taught
the Egyptian temple science.
The non-physical
servants of Djehuti
were depicted as baboons casting
nets into water to catch fish.
Now, the deeper initiation
knowledge behind this
was that these fish
caught in the net
were in actuality the
souls of the dead who
are unable to
consciously navigate
through the non-physical
worlds and so became
caught in the net.
There is a specific
teaching about this
in the key Egyptian
initiation text called
the Book of Coming Forth
Into Light, which today we
often call the Egyptian
Book of the Dead.
In this text, the
initiate learns
to navigate and master the net.
In chapter 153,
the initiate learns
to consciously navigate through
the net, as seen in this quote.
"Oh, you fisherman, you shall
not catch me in your net.
You shall not catch me in
your nets in which you catch
the unwary, for I know the
net from its upper heights
to its lower depths."
This remarkable
initiation text details
all of the aspects of the
net, from the Earth out
into cosmological bodies,
and which aspects of the net
connect to specific higher
non-physical beings,
the netters.
The true master of the
net is the initiate
who has learned how to
navigate through the net
and learned how to use the net
of the living energy matrix
behind everything on
the physical plane
to develop powers that
the uninitiated consider
to be magical.
In ancient Egypt, the
netter of death and rebirth
was named Azra,
name later corrupted
in Greek to become Osiris.
The sacred geometry forum
known as the backbone of Azra
in ancient Egypt
was the djed-pillar,
which was erected each
year in the raising
of the djed ceremony to
connect heaven and Earth.
Just as the Egyptian temples
connected power spots
on the Earth on which they
were built to power spots
in the heavens and
just as the human spine
stands erect for us to be
held between Earth and heaven
to act on the physical plane,
the raising of the djed-pillar
was the culmination of the
mysteries of Azra, or Osiris.
In the ancient Egyptian
document which is today
known as the Westcar Papyrus,
one of the highest masters
of the net in ancient Egypt
is described as the Djedi,
based on the djed-pillar being
the backbone of Azra connecting
heaven and Earth.
The Djedi derives
extraordinary powers
from using the net to
control natural forces.
One story in the Westcar
Papyrus describes a master
of the net, a high priest
for a pharaoh Sneferu,
who parts the waters of a
lake, making a part of a lake
dry so that a valuable
piece of jewelry
can be reclaimed from its floor.
Today, such miracles,
or magic, are
associated with the
parting of the Red Sea
by Moses described
in the Old Testament.
However, these abilities
to control natural forces
were, in fact, a part of the
masters of the net initiation
lineage from which Moses
derived his knowledge
during his training in
the Egyptian temples.
Similarly, the use
of the staff by Moses
is directly derived
from the training
and the use of the staff
in the Egyptian temples.
The staff acts as an antenna
for detecting and projecting
higher forces based
on the designs
and shapes on the staff.
In the Westcar Papyrus,
after the story
of the priest who parts
the waters for the pharaoh,
the story of the
Djedi is introduced.
He is said in this
ancient Egyptian text
to specifically have the power
to restore a life to the dead
and to know hidden secrets
of the ancient temples.
The term used in recent
times in the Star Wars film
series of a Jedi Knight
who can direct the force.
This carries a powerful
subconscious resonance
and attraction for people today.
This is because it comes from
the Hekau system of words
of power in ancient
Egypt, specifically
the terms djed and Djedi.
The lightsaber in
Star Wars sometimes
resembles the form of
the djed-pillar, as well.
From ancient Egypt, the
hidden knowledge of the
spread to other cultures in
the Western tradition, as well.
The foundation of the Western
monotheistic tradition
is the Old Testament,
whose first book, Genesis,
describes the creation
of the Earth from higher
spiritual realms through the
use of specific sacred geometry
patterns.
The very first
statement in Genesis,
in Hebrew, is bereshet.
Note that in the
Hebrew original text,
there are no divisions
of the letters
into words, just an unbroken
stream of letters which
can be divided and
interpreted in deeper
ways within the
Kabbalistic mysteries.
Bereshet is usually
translated into English
as meaning in the beginning,
but in the deeper Kabbalistic
teachings, it also
literally means the net,
or God creates the net as
the beginning of creation.
This means that the
same geometric energy
net we saw previously
as the core
of ancient Egyptian
initiation, which
appears as the matrix of
space time in modern physics,
is also the very first
statement of Genesis, which
can be accurately
translated as God
creates the net as the
very first act of creation.
The Jewish tradition
is well known
for avoiding visual images
of divine realities.
However, in the Kabbalah,
there is a powerful discussion
of a specific net of creation
manifested by the 22 flame
letters of the Hebrew
alphabet, each of which
is a divine power.
In the modern Jewish
Kabbalah, this net pattern
is referred to as the 231 gates.
Perhaps the best
known net pattern
from the Jewish
tradition in modern times
is the tree of life,
an energy matrix which
is a map connecting multiple
dimensions which also
microcosmically manifest
as a powerful energy
grid within the
human energy body.
Methods to activate this
powerful energy grid
within our human
energy field require
real knowledge about this
pattern and its effects,
rather than the
inaccurate speculation
which has become so
prevalent in recent times.
This lost knowledge was
restored in modern times
by a Greek Christian healer and
initiate known to the public
as Daskalos, who referred to the
pattern as the symbol of life,
from its ancient Egyptian roots.
Activating each key part
of this net grid pattern
requires regular practice.
We will show you a
simplified method
where you will activate this
pattern one section at a time
so that by the end
of this series,
you will have learned how
to activate the full pattern
in your energy field.
Please be aware that this can be
an extremely powerful practice,
which can accelerate your
path of personal evolution
and can even
beneficially transform
your spiritual destiny.
We will, in this
series, refer to
this powerful, sacred geometry
grid in the human energy field
as the grid of life
design, or refer
to in short by the acronym GOLD.
This will help to remind us
that this pattern is indeed
linked to activating the
GOLD energy of the saints
in our energy field, the same
golden radiance which is shown
above the heads or bodies
of the great initiates
of every spiritual
tradition around the world.
So let us begin our activation
of the grid of life design,
or GOLD, with the activation
of the GOLD energy surrounding
our head, the seat
of our consciousness.
If you'd like to do
the practice now,
please see the companion
video for this episode.
Otherwise, please
set an intention
to come back and do the
practice at a later time.
And join us for
our next episode,
where we will reveal
four of the deepest
secrets within sacred geometry.
We'll explore more of
the core hidden knowledge
of the masters of
the net from Egypt
and from other great initiation
traditions around the world.
See you then.